## About

This code accompanies the manuscript: Geiss, A., Ma, P-L, Singh, B., and Hardin, J. C., (2022) "Emulating Aerosol Optics with Randomly Generated Neural Networks"


## Required Packages

-PyMieScatt (1.8.1.1)
-numpy (1.19.5)
-netCDF4 (1.5.4)
-tensorflow (2.7.0)

## Python Scripts

**cam_aero_optics.py** A Python implementation of the CAM5 aerosol optics parameterization described in Ghan and Zaveri, JGR, 2007.

**create_optics_tables.py** Subroutines that generate tables of aerosol optical properties integrated over a range of size distributions with the table bounds decided by the wavelenght bands and aerosol modes used by RRTMG and MAM in E3SM.

**eval_on_test_set.py** Evaluates the various optics schemes (chebyshev interpolation, lookup tables, and ANNs) on the randomly generated test data.
                        
**eval_on_valid_set.py** Evaluates the various optics ANNs on the validation data.

**generate_test_set.py** Generates a test set for evaluating optics schemes by randomly selecting query points to evaluate optics from continuous distributions (instead of the regular grids used for the training and validation data).
                        
**generate_train_set.py** Generates the training and validation sets used in the study. the numpy random seed is set to 123 to ensure the same validation split can be reproduced in the future. this script does not do any optics calculations, it simply loads the data in a pre-computed high-resolution optics table generated by 'create_optics_tables.py' and performs pre-processing and does a train/validation split.

**neural_networks.py** Code for building neural networks in keras. The RandomAnn class contains functions that can create randomly wired neural networks using keras and has some additional convenient functions: saving and loading the random networks without building a tensorflow graph, a training subroutine, a function to count the trainable parameters in the random network. The benchmark_mlp function builds a simple feed-forward fully connected network to use for comparison to the random networks. it allows for requesting a layer count and approximate total parameter count.

**optics_utils.py** This contains subroutines and important constants (such as EAMv1 spectral bands, particle radii ranges, modal size distribution log-standard deviations, and water density) that get used by both 'cam_aero_optics.py' and 'ann_optics_table.py.' The subroutines are for reading rrtmg optics files, integrating optical properties over particle size distributions, and a wrapper for MieQ.
			
**train_random.py** Training script for the random anns. Generates and trains a new random architecture each time it is called.

**train_benchmark.py** Training script for the benchmark FF-MLPs.

**train_final.py** Performs a final round of training on select ANN architectures. Uses both the training and validation datasets and trains for twice as long.
			
			
## Directories
			
**./data/** directory where scripts expect data to be stored. an image of this directory at the time of initial submission of this project for publication is available through Zenodo:  https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.6762700

**./figures/** Contains copies of the figures from the manuscript

**./plotting_scripts/** Contains python scripts used to generate Figures 2, 4, and 5 in the manuscript
